welcome back to movie recaps today i'm
going to explain thriller crime movie
called girl in the basement the story
starts with our protagonist sarah and
her father don rushing marie to the
hospital because she has trouble
breathing sarah starts panicking when
marie stops breathing she urges dawn to
drive faster when they reach the
hospital don specifically instructs
sarah to stay quiet in the hospital the
paramedics rush to help marie they give
her oxygen and try to save her life but
all they get is a flat heart line on the
monitor
the story goes back 20 years earlier to
a seemingly idyllic family dinner scene
sarah and her sister amy are having
dinner with their parents don and irene
the mood on the table changes as sarah's
father shows his oppressive side not
allowing her to go to a party and
showing his reign over the family that
night sarah sneaks out with her
boyfriend chris her parents later
discover her room empty and her father
refers to her as a problem at the party
sarah has fun dancing with chris who
later sings her a song he wrote
especially for her they express their
love for each other and kiss sarah comes
home in the morning don has been waiting
for her all night they fight and sarah
says that the moment she turns 18 she
will leave the family for good
sarah talks to her mother and sister
about her plans to travel all around the
country while working to support herself
her dad overhears the conversation and
goes to the basement where he reveals
the existence of a secret room behind a
bookshelf
three months later sarah graduates in a
conversation sarah has with her mom it
is revealed that her father has been
spending more time in the basement his
man cave when irene leaves the house don
tricks sarah into the basement as she
helps him carry a box there he takes her
into the secret room telling her it is a
bomb shelter made by the previous owner
he locks her in the room and she screams
in panic calling for help
unfortunately nobody can hear her as the
shelter is soundproof her mother worried
about her whereabouts calls the police
on the fourth day her father visits her
and coldly explains the logistics of her
captivity from now on she will have to
earn everything she gets even the clean
ventilated air before he leaves don is
taking advantage of sarah a cop visits
the family saying that she has likely
left for her planned long trip across
the country her mother does not believe
that sarah would ever leave home without
saying goodbye especially before her
18th birthday alone and afraid sarah
reminisces about her nights spent with
chris as the days go by chris comes to
the house don lies to him and tells him
that after graduation sarah ran away
with her childhood neighbor steve
on the 21st day of captivity in the
basement she celebrates her 18th
birthday and her dad brings her a cake
and a red nightgown as a gift
she asks for a clock and he tells her
that she has to do something for him so
that he does something for her when she
disobeys him he beats her almost a year
after her captivity she is revealed to
be pregnant and her water breaks all
alone she gives birth to a girl named
marie
four years later sarah is pregnant again
don lives a secret double live one with
his wife irene and daughter amy and
another in the basement with sarah and
her daughter marie still worried about
the whereabouts of sarah irene wants to
hire a private investigator but don
firmly says no
as a gift for being good don brings a tv
in the basement for sarah and marie
later on sarah has a second baby a baby
boy michael
one night sarah makes her terrifying
life story into a bedtime story filled
with princesses and nights that she
tells to her kids chris visits the house
again asking around for sarah her sister
amy tells him the truth realizing that
don lied to chris they talk about how
horrible he has always been to sarah amy
is afraid that don might have killed her
citing his personality and bad temper in
the past to make the time go by sarah
creates imaginary adventures for her
children to help them forget the outside
world in the meantime don is confronted
with his lies by amy and irene a
horrible fight ensues furious irene
yells that she'll do everything in her
power to find her daughter during their
fight don drops his keys on the armchair
amy takes the keys and goes around to
the basement to look for clues don finds
her gets his keys back and fights with
amy she is mad afraid and blames him for
causing sarah's disappearance
as time passes by sarah has another baby
boy who she names thomas being nice and
calm sarah convinces dawn to take the
third baby upstairs
she persuades him by explaining that
there is no room for another baby in the
basement and that she doesn't have the
time to take care of it the baby is left
on the house's porch to be found by
irene in a heartfelt note in the baby
basket seemingly written by sarah she
writes that this is her baby and that
she wants it to be raised by irene in
the letter she explains that she and her
boyfriend don't have the means to take
care of the baby in the basket there is
also another note from sarah pleading
for help
unfortunately don is the one who
discovers it and assaults her again the
years go by in captivity the children
develop an extraordinary imagination
expanding their mom's bedtime story by
now sarah has been in the basement for
14 years
marie has grown into a beautiful young
girl that one night tries out makeup
when dawn shows interest in her beauty
sarah begs dawn to leave her daughter
alone she does not want her to be
assaulted in return vaughn shuts down
the power which controls the clean air
while gasping for air marie expresses
her concerns about never meeting anyone
and having no friends throughout the
conversation we realize that marie has
no idea that don is both her grandfather
and father
now groan thomas finds his grandmother
crying in his mother's bedroom
irene misses her daughter and talks to
thomas about how magnificent sarah is
at the same time in the basement
raindrops start dropping from the
ceiling
sarah climbs up to discover a damp roof
using a spoon she digs her way to the
surface where she flashes a distressed
signal a neighbor notices it and tells
dawn about it rather than checking it
out dawn beats sarah who is pregnant
again the beating causes her to lose her
baby as she sobs from the pain
sarah has a stillbirth and dawn buries
the baby in the yard
don goes to the basement and complains
he also praises thomas who is now a
strong athlete when marie and michael
ask when they are going to be led into
the outside world don blames sarah in
her bad behavior she is the reason they
are down there trapped
pressured by her children's endless
questions about their life in a fit of
rage sarah shouts and demolishes all
their furniture
exhausted she falls to the ground
remembering her happiest moments with
chris
her children put a blanket on her and
clean up their home
they apologize to her emotional sarah
tells them that they're old enough to
hear the true story behind their life in
captivity
so far they knew that dawn lives
upstairs with their aunt irene to help
take care of thomas sick of all the lies
she tells them everything starting from
the fact that her life is the
inspiration of their favorite bedtime
story gently she explains that don is
her dad as well as their dad the moment
murray finds out the painful truth she
has a severe asthma attack the children
now feel that there is something wrong
with them sarah reassures them telling
them that she loves them and that dawn
is the only one to be blamed
a year later another incident occurs
between dawn and michael after dawn
insults sarah and her appearance
the food for the basement is being
rationed as dawn is having trouble at
work
soon he loses his job
facing a foreclosure don tries to
suffocate the family in the basement he
connects the car exhaust fumes with the
air vent he gets interrupted by thomas
in the garage who unknowingly saves
their lives while dawn and his family
have a fun barbecue in the yard marie is
sick struggling to breathe
don refuses to take marie to the
hospital
sarah begs for his help she promises not
to say a word about anything dun agrees
michelle is left behind
20 years of captivity have passed and we
are now at the beginning of the film
when maurice is being rushed to the
hospital
sarah is extremely worried about marie's
life and feels truly relieved when the
doctors save her life
when the nurse asks for more medical
history she is told that marie is
homeschooled and has only been treated
with natural remedies
sarah slowly scans the hospital seeking
a way out but she looks tired and lost
in an attempt to escape sarah spills
water on the medical forms and separates
from don
seconds before dawn gets to her sarah
reaches the nurse confessing she needs
help a police officer goes to talk to
don
the police arrest him
sarah announces this to marie they are
safe and free the house is filled with
police who free michael as well irene
and thomas are devastated when they see
michael gasping for air as they take him
out of the basement don sees everything
from the back of the police vehicle
later on during a beautiful summer's day
marie thomas and michael play in the
countryside while sarah irene and amy
watch over them from the house's porch
marie notices someone coming from the
driveway
it's chris he arrives on his motorcycle
together with sarah they go for a walk
he feels sorry for not trying harder to
find her and for believing in her
father's bs story he gives her a gift a
pink motorcycle helmet he bought for her
at the age of 18 when they were planning
to embark on a journey
finally happy together they go on their
long-awaited motorcycle ride
make sure to subscribe and turn on
notifications so you can watch more
videos like this
thanks for watching